JetStream documentation (#14099)
kyma-project/kyma: docs/04-operation-guides/operations/evnt-01-enable-kyma-with-jetstream.md

---
title: Enable Kyma with JetStream
---

> This guide shows how to enable JetStream and how it ensures `at least once` delivery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows how to enable JetStream and how it ensures the at-least-once delivery.
```
Now that I'm thinking about it I guess we do not need the brackets at all.

Author: I think the brackets are good. But I don't think we need `the` before `at least once`

Reviewer: No, we don't :) You're right :)

> This guide shows how to enable JetStream and how it upholds `at least once delivery` quality of service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide shows how to enable JetStream and how it ensures the `at least once` delivery.
```
According to the official [JetStream documentation](https://docs.nats.io/nats-concepts/jetstream#exactly-once-message-delivery), only the 'at least once' wording is distinguished in brackets

### Enable JetStream

Install Kyma and enable the JetStream flag by running:

```
kyma deploy --value global.jetstream.enabled=true --value global.jetstream.storage=file
```

> > **NOTE:** The storage flag set to `file` enables persistence of messages and streams, if the NATS server restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** The storage flag set to `file` enables persistence of messages and streams if the NATS server restarts.
```

> > **NOTE:** The storage flag set to `file` enables persistence of messages and streams, in case of NATS server restart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** The storage flag set to `file` enables persistence of messages and streams, if the NATS server restarts.
```

> ### At least once delivery using JetStream backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `At least once` delivery using JetStream backend
```

Author: @grego952 Do I need the highlight for the heading?

Reviewer: Let me double check

Reviewer: No, we don't need

> ### At least once delivery guarantees using JetStream backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `At least once` delivery guaranteed using JetStream backend
```

Author: How about I remove the word `guaranteed` itself?

Author: And do I need the highlight for the heading?

> 1. Create a [function](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function), [subscription](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-subscription) and [trigger the workload with an event](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#trigger-the-workload-with-an-event). Everything should work as usual.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a [Function](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function), [Subscription](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-subscription) and [trigger the workload with an event](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#trigger-the-workload-with-an-event).
```
I don't think that the last sentence is required. It should be obvious for the user that everything should work.

> 2. Once JetStream is enabled, delete the function (the sink of the subscription).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once you have JetStream enabled, delete your Function (the sink of Subscription).
```

```bash
kubectl -n default delete function lastorder
```

> 3. Trigger the event again as shown [here](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#trigger-the-workload-with-an-event). The message is stored and is visible in the stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Follow the [Trigger the workload with an event](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#trigger-the-workload-with-an-event) tutorial to trigger the event once again. The message is stored and is visible in the stream.
```

>    1. Port-forward the Kyma Eventing NATS Service to localhost. We will use port `4222`. Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Port forward the Kyma Eventing NATS Service to localhost. Use port `4222`. Run:
```

      ```bash
      kubectl -n kyma-system port-forward svc/eventing-nats 4222
      ```

>    2. Use the [nats cli](https://github.com/nats-io/natscli) to list the streams:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   2. Use the [nats CLI](https://github.com/nats-io/natscli) to list the streams:
```

      ```bash
      nats stream ls
      ```

      Notice that the stream contains undelivered messages:
      ```bash
      \╭────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────╮
       │                                  Streams                                   │
       ├──────┬─────────────┬─────────────────────┬──────────┬───────┬──────────────┤
       │ Name │ Description │ Created             │ Messages │ Size  │ Last Message │
       ├──────┼─────────────┼─────────────────────┼──────────┼───────┼──────────────┤
       │ sap  │             │ 2022-04-26 00:00:00 │ 1        │ 318 B │ 5.80s        │
       ╰──────┴─────────────┴─────────────────────┴──────────┴───────┴──────────────╯
      ```

> 5. Recreate the [function](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function). The stream should no longer contain any undelivered messages and the event should be delivered. You can verify it as shown [here](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#verify-the-event-delivery). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Recreate your [Function](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#create-a-function). The stream no longer contains any undelivered messages and the event is delivered. Follow the [tutorial](../../02-get-started/04-trigger-workload-with-event.md#verify-the-event-delivery) to verify the event delivery. 
```
